Title: Transcript of Prof. Li-Ta Hsu on GNSS, RTK, and the Future of Decentralized Navigation
Source: Onocoy
Type: Video transcript
Captured: 2026-02-14

Everybody relying on GNSS and we stop knowing its existence. Hello everyone, this is Joy from Moncoy. Today I'm at the Hong Kong Polytenic University and I'm going to meet with a professor from the Intelligent Positioning and Navigation Lab. So, let's go inside. I've been here before a few years ago as a exchange student, so I know the professor from those days. But let's hear his opinions on GNSS and correction data and what the future holds for us. Okay, I'm here at the floor. that [Music] maybe you can briefly introduce yourself and your lab to our viewers. Okay. So, I'm Lita Su. So, let me introduce myself first. Like I'm I'm Lita. I'm I'm born and raised in Taiwan and got my PhD and and in Taiwan as well. And during the PhD I'm doing that in UCL University College of London and after that I become a posttock in Tokyo University working at all autonous driving and robotics intelligent transportation assistant with the ad of GNSS. So I'm using GNSS in this applications and after that I'm coming to Hong Kong which is where we are now uh in 2006 so that's nine years ago. So that's my first uh faculty job and ever since I have been working at urban GNSS either for um IoT devices including smartphone, smartwatches, we haven't do smart glasses but that could be the future and we then we also apply this to a lot of vehicS with the other sensor GNSS especially GNSS RTK with LAR because they are both centimeter level. So we integrating that and put it in urban Kenya. And one last one. So it's like uh last two years I was staying at Google as a visiting research scientist in Android location teams and we are also doing a lot of interesting stuff over there. Yeah. So may I say that you're very experienced in the field of GNSS navigation and all these things. You know Asian usually hembo but this in this case I should say yeah yes I I think I'm I'm qualified to to do this. Yeah. Where do you think uh the position of GNSS right now is in the field of navigation? I think um so this is a huge question. So so um where it is right now so I think it go to a critical point from just positioning now it's a infrastructure everybody relying on GNSS and without knowing its existence. So it has been used in so many different field like our for for most of people we know using is navigation and we probably know using robotics for example the drones the autonous driving cars but actually also use in timekeeping time synchronization for example the power grid and also in crypto as well actually when you're doing this quantum financial trading the timing is super important and how to make sure everybody's time is the same in the very high resolution If you're going to buy those very expensive atomic clocks, gosh, it's going to cost you a ton. So what people have been using is just using GNSS because it's not about position, it's about timing as well. We call it PVT, positioning, velocity, and timing. So that actually being used to synchronize a large large grid whatever system it is in the world like power grid, financial grid. So and we are in a critical point is that GNSS is being used everywhere and everything is digital everything is controlled. So how are we going to make sure the infrastructure services is always good even under some threat. Threat is everywhere. Threat could be come from cyber attack. It could be coming from the nature disaster for example um the the the the inospheres insulation all the stuff. So how are we going to protecting our our positioning infrastructure? I think that's the current point. Yeah. And also corrections play a role in here right very much. So um so that's a different aspect I haven't uh talk about. So the first aspect I talk about is uh for infrastructure resiliency and how do we have the redundant system but the second one is people using GNSS as human beings. So you probably believe that it's already enough but how the robots how the autonomous system for example drone auto driving car how they perceive the world is not the same as human beings so they have to be navigate in digital world and those digital world require map require coordinate so that's where GNSS is coming in so you need to provide quite accurate position much more much much more accurate comparing to your smartphone is using today So you got to bring that to a level of like five centimeter 10 centimeters. So it's like this big. So it's it's it's important and it's it's it's it's difficult. Yes, it's difficult as well. Yeah. Let's talk about like how to achieve this. Yeah, sure. So because you talk about you bring the word corrections. So the arrow is actually coming from. We talk about correction. You need to know where the arrow coming from. The arrow is like uh when we doing positioning, you need to know where the satellite is perfectly. Our scientists around the world is doing a good job but we still managed to do it to a few centimeters by 20 centimeters something but still some errors out there. The 20 cm in the satellite position will translate to your position also 20 cm. So that is one part to be correct. The second part including the your signal trans transporting through the atmosphere. So you have tropospheric delay you have atmospheric delay those also something to be cancelled. So how to do that? you need to have a reference station. So that's a network reference station. So there are tons of different network provider for this. Now some government doing this, some some private sector doing this but we haven't have one have a global coverage in terms of that and so I I will say like if we have a global coverage of corrections and they can really like motivate a lot of new applications going to new places and that's really important especially those robotics application, autonomous application. Yeah, I have introduced the honory project to you already. So um do you think how do you see honcoy in this? Oh it's very interesting world. Yeah it's very interesting because um I said like the coverage is not globally because we load GNSS is geek we call it navigation key or geodathy geek. We are living in the certain part of the world. So we hope to increase the diversity of people who working at us but still struggling. I mean like you really want to push to everywhere in the world but how to do that like um to do that luden academic network is pretty slow. So we believe that um the power of market. So if uh we can have like okonoise like you guys if you can bring this GNSS receiver as a reference station to different user in the world and they can deploy there that means we can easily get a different correction services into different part of the world and that means we can bring a lot of new robotics applications into different part of the world especially those new market. Yes that's exactly our aim. Currently we are really heavy focusing on um East Asia, Southeast Asia and um yeah what do you think uh the how do does Southeast Asia East Asia will profit from that? Let's talk about East Asia because in East Asia um we talk about East North Asia because that's where I come from. I was working in Japan for a few years so I more familiar with this part of the world. I would say we are facing to aging society. So robotics is definitely a roles out there. So you got to have someone to do the job that people don't want to do especially like agriculture. So we already see America and also China doing a good job in precision agricultures that's replacing a lot of um the agriculture business. I mean like they're upgrading the agriculture business. So I expecting like in in Japan and Taiwan. So especially I'm coming from fish farmer family myself. So I know like that this um these people these important people they are actually uh cannot find a successor to the business because the young the younger generation love to work in in much comfortable um environment we can all understand that so robotics for that I think that's a big part if you want have robotics to work outdoor you need GNSS you need GNSS centimeter level you need correction services so for no so Northeast Asia so I would say that's as a marketer. Do you have any else that you would like to say or I like the idea of of using crypto and and the value is whole based on on the RTK services because I I do believe that um our future require a lot of automation of on robotics and GNSS has always been a part for this autonomous system. For those who say GNSS uh is not that important is is because they don't want they don't require it so accurate but somehow it is definitely there. If it is not there is making a lot of thing much harder. So think about a world that GNSS is reliable and accurate. People are saying that we can do it without GNSS because it's hard to be accurate everywhere. But just think of the future if you can have GNSS as easy as today like it's accuracy is not just a few 10 meter it's not a few meter it is a few centimeter everywhere around the world wow it's a game changer so people saying that it's not important it's because GNSS is hard in some areas that's because the technical challenges not because GNSS is not important so those challenge of GNSS is one of the aspect is the correction coverage so I would say like okono I mean like all the whole idea is to promoting GNSS use in other robotics in the world. So therefore I I strongly support and I wish to see you guys thrive. Yeah. Thank you so much. You later. Thank you. You're very welcome. Yeah.
