Title: Onocoy TGE & The Horizontal Play
Source: Gold Hawks and Associates (DePIN show)
Type: Video transcript
Captured: 2026-02-14

Welcome to the DePIN presented by Gold Hawks and Associates. On today's episode, we have Daniel Amman, co-founder over at onocoy. This episode is sponsored by Gold Hawks and Associates, the most experienced DePIN consultancy in the space. We help projects develop strategy, messaging and token incentives. We'll have a little bit more on us later in the show. Before we get started, make sure you hit like, subscribe, smash the bell, all the great things that help us keep bringing great guests like Daniel to you. Daniel, thanks so much for making the time. Yeah, thanks for having me. I know you're ultra busy. But I thought we'd start off with the basics is who are you and what's your relationship to onocoy? I'm Daniel Amman, I'm a veteran in the GPS industry. Did the first startup in the space, which IPO’d, a company called uBlox which is today market leading in automotive and drone GPS. Then initiated onocoy, to solve for service side on high precision GPS. Okay. And then we've got some. So the big takeaway there for those watching is that you've been in this industry a long time. You've been a part of some really important pieces of it. And you saw this opportunity to go DePIN with onocoy and got after it. So at this point, we've got some pretty big news in the onocoy world. Let's start with that. What's, what's coming down the pipe? Yes. So, we're going to TGE, the plan is sometime in July, that we can issue a token on decentralized exchange. That's, one really exciting thing that's happening. Maybe even more important is that we have revenues. So our system, is being used by the industry. So we're providing data on several networks, which in turn then provide high precision to applications, in the avionics and the drone and the robotic space. And I think it's two main things. So product market fit is proven. And I think that's two exciting things to happen will happen. Yeah. Yeah. So TGE is a big deal. A lot of a lot of attention gets put on that by miners. And I think really the, the big takeaway for them is A) it's coming. B) for me as an American, this is a Swiss company. So they usually do things on time. They're pretty precise. I don't think we're going to see this delayed, but every other project gets delayed, so if it does, no big deal. Are there any things that you think miners should prepare for? As we get closer to TGE, is they should they be paying attention to this BONO to ONO thing, Is there anything they should kind of get ready for? Yes, indeed. So there will be a conversion of BONO to ONO, where as time passes, the conversion factor gets higher. We do that also to make sure that there's not too much fluctuation in the price in the beginning. And so to stabilize things, because, yes, it is a TGE, can go different ways. That's on the normal channels in our Discord and Twitter. That's where we communicate and talk. That's where the news happens. Got it. And I would be remiss if I didn't mention that my partner, Max Gold, helped design some of the incentives around there. So that means from my book, they're about as good as they get. That guy is a genius when it comes to incentives and making sure people are doing the things that are the best for the project. Okay, let's talk about the big thing then, because we got the TGE news out of the way, we got this kind of ONO and BONO conversion out of the way or ONO & BONO conversion out of the way, I think those are really important. For me, I'm always really interested in the DePIN side is, what are you doing that's new? Can you walk me through this idea you have with vertical and horizontal plays and DePIN? Because every other play that I've seen in DePIN is, vertical, and you guys are doing this or not, everyone but you guys are doing this horizontal one. Walk me through that. Sure. In my mind, there's like three classes of DePIN projects when we talk application level DePIN. There's the DePINs who do the infrastructure like layer ones and those people. But when you have an application, the profits from a DePIN approach, there's two, three ways. Either the DePIN project has no market and waits for market to exist, or then there is a market. And then there's two ways how you can go after this market. Either you go vertical, meaning you do everything from the hardware device that the miners buy to providing the blockchain, the incentive systems to selling the data to also making the devices which introduce the data that's vertical. In the end, this means you are competing with an existing industry. So there is a market, then there's players out there, but they don't do it in web3, the DePIN way but you start competing with them. So the N plus one company does the same thing but with a DePIN angle. And so that means your differentiation is typically then on the level of price, you're competing. But you need to reinvent many of the real states the established players have, like distribution channels, like the marketing side, different verticals. You need to focus. That's the vertical. The horizontal play is quite the opposite there. If you just do a one part of a whole value chain. So accepting that there's different parties in in that stack, until the end application. And in our case, that means we don't do the hardware because there's plenty of hardware manufacturers out there who put the devices out which are good enough, which are sufficient for high precision GPS So we don't need to worry about that. We rather want to have different players having different, differentiating features on the mining device side, but the same also on this on the demand side. So we are not, going into different verticals. We don't sell rovers. We don't do anything specific for certain verticals. We rather want to have the existing industry, which has been there for like 20 years. We want them to to be able to build on top instead of seeing us as competitors. So that's the horizontal versus vertical, a bit like Google and Apple. In the earlier days, Google provided a part of an overall solution like the Android operating system and not doing the phones. That has changed. That was the initial idea. And Apple being more a vertical, integrated, ecosystem where everything comes from Apple and it works beautifully in itself. And there's no right or wrong about the horizontal versus, vertical, but it's different approaches. Yeah, I think it's super exciting to see. And it's also for me as a as an onlooker and also an advisor to onocoy and a former advisor to GEOnet, really cool to see that both of these companies are taking these really different paths. So we're seeing that GEOnet is exploring the vertical side. You guys are doing the horizontal. And I think of them more like, you know, fast action versus slow action and a slower action has this has more of a chance to get much, much bigger and to really develop an entirely new aspect where fast action says, hey, I'm going to go in, I'm going to do this same thing. I'm going to compete as you said On price, as you said. And that's pretty interesting. I mean, it's always it's always good if you have a price advantage. But I'm really curious to see how onocoy develops this kind of horizontal idea system and really how it executes it in this new world. Are there aspects of this horizontal piece that you think will really give onocoy a massive advantage over the long term? Okay, yes. Look, the since we're don’t do the hardware, we are basing this the whole system on established standards, that have been around for a long time. So that also allows anyone who has a device to participate all the way towards do it yourself and devices or people. They buy the raspberry PiS, they buy GNSS receivers on AliExpress, put them together some Docker images and they can go and start mining and that all works, they have good antennas, good security,. They can participate. And so we have a much broader basis. And the, the whole supply chain, issues that you would otherwise have with shipping devices around the planet and all that is, is solved. And I think that's definitely an advantage. But even more important is there's quite a large installed base of existing, reference stations out there, people who have been purchasing such devices for different purposes. They need, for their own application. They need a reference station. And for them, we can offer a, additional monetization path for the hardware infrastructure that they’re deploying, part of our network today is already based on on such stations. So it's not new installs. It also makes a lot of sense to re-use hardware instead of imposing our hardware. Our proprietary hardware. Yeah, and I liked it. I know when I got the, the X5, which is sitting the mosaic X5, which is sitting right behind me and has been producing a data stream, it was really cool. I wasn't a GNSS native. I wouldn't I still would not consider myself the GNSS native by a long shot. But it was really cool to realize, oh, I can take this data stream and add it to the onocoy network, and all of a sudden onocoy has the extra data stream. Anyone can use that, and that's pretty cool. But I can also use it for myself. I really like the idea of this being open, and I think that's really in line with the kind of the best of what DePIN offers, where it's saying, hey, you're all producing these data streams anyway, whether you're Helium and you're creating LoRaWAN coverage or you’re DMO or you’re Hivemapper, and you're doing imagery like any of these things, you should also have the option to receive some kind of rewards for this. And I think that's a super cool thing to, to see that you guys are doing. I mean, just adding on that to the downside on that is we need to deal with a wide variety of different devices. And also we need to check the quality of the data that comes in much more stringent than if we would have control over the hardware. I think we've found our ways how to do that. We really have to promise to be seeing, from most of devices and be also just rewarding accordingly. I said, we're not just counting number of satellites to be counting, really deep, GNSS measurements, code and carrier phase noises and, cycle sleeps and all those nitty gritty stuff we can expect from the signals Yeah, I think that's probably the single biggest argument or challenge that you guys have, at least from my kind of non-technical perspective, is how do you take all of these different streams, and how do you make sure that the stream you're getting is the stream that the streamer says you're getting and that you're not getting spoofed, or there's not someone coming in and trying to game the system? I think that's the single biggest challenge kind of argument that I can think of against onocoy can you? I mean, obviously it's not something you solve overnight. Walk me through there. How you're approaching that not only now, but over time as we as we keep going forward. Sure, so the GPS signals, as they're being received, they correlate in the vicinity. So, so if you have two stations nearby, the measurements are not the same, but they correlate. So things like the atmosphere, the troposphere, but also plate tectonics that you need to be in concert in certain areas, even things like, jamming. So if there's some somewhere there's a jamming event. So in denial of service attack essentially on GNSS this should be visible on several receivers. And if there's just one receiver continuously, still providing data because it's not a of jamming that's happening, then something's fishy about that. And there are some various means how you can do that virtually by employing, AI technologies to identify spoofers and jammers. Sure. I mean, it's it's an arms race, if you want to that and fundamentally, it all the GPS, systems are such that they don't have any authentication markers on the signal so even if you have control over the hardware, you still have the attack vector off the antenna. You still can inject data into that, which then causes, measurements that look representative for certain locations. Okay. And that is a problem in GPS. It has been around for for 20 years and longer and actually also being used to do things here to support. And and I think our research that we've done and that we continue doing on how to detect fraud, that continues to be leading edge. There's also research that we're about to announce also some collaboration, that to do on that front. Yeah, that's been an interesting aspect of onocoy, is because you have such a big challenge and you and you have to rise to meet it. You end up doing some new cutting edge research and really moving the field forward. And I think that's I don't know if that's, you know, something people want to take on, but it certainly helps, build the moat where it's like, hey, we have this technology and understanding that isn't common throughout the industry, and we can apply it because we have to apply it, and that ends up making the industry better over time. So I think it's a really cool thing that you're doing is taking a challenge and making it, has strength. Indeed. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Super cool. Is there anything else that you want folks to know as we come up to TGE? Is there anything where like, hey, I really want you to set your station up here, or we need stations in this place, or is there anything else that you want the general kind of DePIN audience to know about onocoy right now? I think one point is DePIN is quite the opposite of a meme coin, right? It's a it's a long term play. It's, it's an infrastructure. It's not something that it gets an immediate, three x or ten x or whatever people look at within months. And we've seen many, especially when it comes to retail, that's often not understood. People just like, oh, here's a new token. Let's see what they do. Okay. There we go. We’re the opposite. I mean, we’re a real world, application. What we do, we can only do thanks to a DePIN thanks to a Web3 incentivization scheme. But it's quite the opposite of of a meme.. So I think it's important to understand that. And that's also how the, everything that I mentioned. Things like which pools do we have? How the tokens are being unlocked. This is not something that happens immediately. The system is designed for 15 years. And we will keep that in mind. That's, I think, important when you look at the opportunity to participate in the TGE and post TGE trading. Yeah, yeah, it is interesting. And I love the fact that onocoy has got this really long term thinking and not saying, hey, we're going to, you know, stick around for a year and see what happens is that every conversation I've been a part of is we think out, how do you know how does a two year, five year ten year what do these things look like? And then how do we design to make sure that the network is not only strong now but in the future? Super super cool. Daniel, thanks so much for making the time. I know you're super busy. I know there's a lot of other things you can do, so I appreciate you coming on and sharing your wisdom and insight and perspective with us. Thank you very much
