Title: DePIN Tokenomics: How Token Models Shape the Market
Source: Fluence
Type: Video transcript
Captured: 2026-02-14

[Music] [Applause] [Music] So let's talk about token economics in detail. First the interest in the space. So we've seen a number of reports come out in the deepin space. Misari has been writing reports for years on deepin and we've seen the large exchanges each write a report on deepin. Binance, Kraken, Coinbase, and even Grayscale has just come out with a report on Deepen. So, the interest here in the space and in the token economics continues to grow. So, first thing to know about deepen token models is that they evolve. And so, we're seeing especially early projects start to evolve their token models as trial and error starts to make clear the benefits of certain models versus others. But it's important to be a bit cautionary about if you're a founder trying to evolve your model because you're not always able to do so. The biggest warning in that space happened with Filecoin which tried to update their token model to allow more locked tokens. The miners didn't support this change and so the model didn't change. The model did not evolve. And so I think that's important to launch with as mature a token model as you can possibly come up with because at some point because as soon as you launch you start to create interests that are aligned with the way the token economics are currently designed and they may be very resistant to any changes even if those changes benefit the network overall. So I would urge people to be in founders to be as clear and as um fully um confident in the model they've developed because while you can change it and plenty of projects have there's some level of risk and certainly a lot of time and effort in doing so. So let's then talk about um the two types of of the two kind of components of tokens. There's the issuance of the tokens and there's the use of the tokens. Those are the two main things to think about. Issuance is who who gets the tokens. And so it's usually some level of management, investors, and then participants. And there's a whole lot to unpack particularly with regard to the participant piece of that. And then there is the use of the token. And so let's talk about the use for a second. So in digital deep pins, a lot of the focus is on trust. And that's because you're using generally more commodity level hardware in a network and you're competing with large companies like Amazon and Google that have built up trust and have legal agreements to help provide that trust. And so if you're working and competing with them with small providers, you need some mechanism to generate that trust. And so what people have developed is a staking and a token economics model where the user is aligned with the provider. And so a lot of token economic models and the digital deep inside are designed to align customers and users and create that trust to help compete with the large cloud um companies which have that built in already. And so with physical deepins trust is less of a priority. Instead, it is you are working on rewarding participants. And the reason trust is less of a priority is because generally in physical deepens, you're aggregating data over thousands even millions of devices. So whether one or a couple devices are not working well or fraudulent has less of an impact. And these these DPINs are basically aggregating all the data from all these devices and then selling that data. then sometimes they're the ones actually these physical deepens are the ones actually providing the devices themselves. So they're much less likely to be subject to fraud and customers are also um the data they're getting is just a big is an is a combination of all this all these devices. So there's less of a risk of any one or two or small number jeopardizing basically the value of that data. But what the token economics here are focused on with physical deepens is the rewarding of all these participants. So you basically are aggregating data from thousands or millions of participants. So how do you then monetize that data and reward those participants? That's the key with physical deepens. And so there are a lot of different models in terms of how you do that. Do you reward everybody the same? Do you do a lottery system? Do you reward just the people that provided the service in particular subsectors? And so that's where I think physical deepens really start to the token models start to get interesting is the different ways they've chosen to reward all these participants in a way that keeps them interested and keeps them providing the service and is a way that rewards them fairly for the data that they are providing. And you know, when designing token models, the other thing I think you need to be aware of is the risk of both a low token and a high token. I think everybody recognizes that if your token goes down in value, rewards are worth less and your project is at risk. I think that is intuitive. But what's also important is that if your token goes up a lot, you also have risks. If your token goes up too much, you run the risk of people joining your network who are either short-term and not really interested in even providing the real service. And you also may attract fraud, much more a higher chance of attracting fraud as well. So token goes up, your network can grow dramatically in terms of participants, but those may not be the participants who are going to stick around when the network token returns to either its normal state or just crashes. And in fact, a high token price can lead to lots of fraudulent activity, lots of temporary users that really in fact drive a decline in the token ultimately and then jeopardize the project because when the token crashes, those people all leave. The network is is is then far less redundant, far less um robust. The data can't be trusted and you have a real problem. So I think that when designing token economics, you have to think about not only the risk of a token decline and the impact that would have on a project, but also think about a token going up a lot as it has in passable markets and the impact that will have on incentives, on rewards, and on the ecosystem and community overall.
