Title: $ONO Tokenomics Explained
Source: Onocoy
Type: Video transcript
Captured: 2026-02-14

Hi, this is Thomas Nikadonoocoy and I'm going to walk you through the ONO tokconomics. When we designed the tokconomics, we aimed at creating a system that is stable for years to come and provides the necessary incentives to get us through the critical startup phase. That translates into four principles. First, the system must be economically viable and attractive for all stakeholders. Second, users must have stable service pro uh prices. Reference station operators also called miners must have strong incentives to provide data in the quality and availability required by the users. and miners have to be considered as de facto small investors into the ecosystem and hence they must participate in the long-term success of onooy. This led us to a two token model with a capped deflationary ono token and data credits for network utility payments. Uno drives minor incentives and governance and the data credits are used uh for stable utility prices. So let's look at how value gets into the system. Well, onooy sells data credits against fiat and this creates a constant recurring revenue stream into the system. Data users then use this data credits to access the reference station data and when doing so data credits are burned. This closes the data credit uh loop. Onooy on the other hand rewards reference station operators with ONO depending on quality, availability and location uniqueness. Now what can reference stations operators do with uh these tokens? Well, unless they want to huddle them and speculate for upward price pressure on the token, they can sell them at the DEX and get fiat or at least stable coins in return for the tokens. Now, Onooy uses the revenues generated from the sale of data credit to finance its operation and it may buy buy back on tokens from the exchange and use the uh fiat this way. Now, if Oncoy buys back tokens, it will also burn a certain percentage and this creates a deflationary element. This comes on top of a cap supply of only 810 million tokens that is released at a schedule uh pre-arranged with uh a annual deflationary factor of 16% which translates into a having schedule of four years. That means there are less and less tokens released and because tokens are burnt depending on the business volume on a coyote generates that creates a strong deflationary uh pressure on the token supply. So it makes it scarser and this in return leads to upper price pressure on the ONO price. So in a nutshell, ONO was designed with a capped supply and deflationary elements to create systematic long-term upward price pressure. This is the basis for miners, investors, and the team to contribute to Onocoin while there is not yet enough revenue flowing into the system for break even. However, in order to benefit from this uh upward price pressures, all the stakeholders mentioned before must take a sufficiently long-term perspective. Fortunately, Oncoy has already generated first revenues and it has uh bought back a bird first token all by a smaller scale. This indicates that Onocoy serves a real user need and creates a stable economy for this uh market.
