Title: What is DePIN? The Future of Decentralized Infrastructure
Source: Fluence
Type: Video transcript
Captured: 2026-02-14

[Music] [Applause] [Music] So let's dive right in. What is deepen? So I define deepen as crowdsource physical infrastructure bound together in a network that is secured and incented by cryptoeconomics and is providing a service. That is I think a critical piece of it. And the industry has grown by grown significantly and some estimate over a thousand projects. I think if you stick with that definition you actually have a fraction of that number or a couple hundred projects probably but that number of projects are solving real world problems are scaling generating revenue and will be big players in multiundred billion dollar businesses maybe even trillion dollar sectors. So that definition and the projects in there have the potential to be incredibly large successes. And we divide the world into two different sectors. You have the cloud or digital deepins and then you have the physical deep pins. And so the cloud or digital deepens are the ones that are providing cloud related services. This is computer storage um compute the work that actually your computers and data centers do and file rendering. those are addressing the enormous um you know hundred billion or $800 billion going to two trillion cloud market and I think you'll see a number of incredibly successful very large projects in that area in fact the one of the earliest deepin probably the first is filecoin which is a decentralized storage protocol that is obviously a core project in the digital deepin space and then if you move to the physical deepin space these are projects that usually usually rely on consumer um owned hardware. So we're talking about and that are providing services that are more akin to real world services like Wi-Fi coverage, cell phones, um location services and the earliest project in this space is helium which started off using um people's kind of excess internet to provide a data coverage for devices and it has since transitioned into a MVNO a mobile virtual network and is doing cellular offload. What's interesting about all these projects, what they have in common though is that they basically crowdsource this infrastructure and so they use the crowd to buy and deploy infrastructure. And what has allowed Deepen to emerge now is the convergence of three trends. Software maturity, hardware pricing, and token economics design and adoption. And so software has advanced to the point where you can now put together networks of disparate devices globally relatively easily. Now it's not easy but very possible in a way that it was in five or 10 years ago. Hardware is now much much cheaper than it used to be. And so you can build and sell devices that either share Wi-Fi or map or dash cams for cars or antennas for weather stations or antennas to track planes at a fraction of the cost it was 5 or 10 years ago. And then obviously you have token economics and the token economics are the kind of the critical piece in both securing many of these networks with regard to digital deep pins and then with regard to physical ones. They're obviously critical in providing rewards for people that buy and use these devices. And what makes Deepin so interesting from a business perspective is that the sectors whether they're digital or whether they're um physical basically allow the hardware costs the traditional companies have to drop to almost zero because all these networks rely on the crowd buying, deploying or sharing hardware that create these networks. And so the actual protocols have almost zero capital expenditures. And so if you're a company or project with almost zero capital expenditures, of course, your costs are going to be far far lower than your centralized competitors. And so I think this is why we're seeing deepin at the emerging at this time now is because these developments and maturity of software, hardware, and token economics. And if you take a step back, you realize that within the crypto space, there are 32 million tokens. 600,000 were issued in January alone. And so we're seeing this incredible flood of supply. But within the deep space, what's interesting is going back to the token economics, all these different things combine into creating projects, generating real value and real revenue. And when a project generates that revenue and can use it to buy and burn their token, they don't need to compete with the whole world about what the next best hot project is because that project can take that revenue, buy its token, and be the only source of demand for that token, which was super super compelling. And so instead of spending money on marketing and on driving interest in a fleeting investor attraction, these businesses are focused on building revenue and using that revenue to buy their own token and burn it. And as those tokens start to appreciate, as we've seen with Geode, that will in turn drive more investors to that project and to others in the space. And I think will be incredibly bullish for space overall. [Music] [Music]
