[]Copy

[]

1.  Explorer

Sky Map

The Sky Visibility Map provides a historical representation of the
visibility of the GNSS satellites of a given reference station across
the sky in the previous 24 hours.

The Sky Visibility Map color coding indicates how good the satellite
observation is within a given sky sector. Shades of green indicate a
reasonably good / ideal visibility, shades of yellow indicate less
optimal visibility and shades of red indicate sub optimal visibility,
which can indicate sky obstructions caused by buildings, trees,
mountains, etc. in the vicinity.

Plain white sectors are areas where no satellites were observed nor
expected at all. It is normal to have an area in the sky where no
satellite signals are received. That area is called polar hole and it
exists because GNSS orbits do not cover Earth's poles, leaving a blank
area in the Northern part of the sky in the northern Earth hemisphere or
a blank area in the southern part of the sky in the southern Earth
hemisphere.

The visibility is calculated based on how many satellites were visible
in a given sector vs. how many satellites were expected to be visible in
that sector (i.e. when a satellite is known to be there but the station
did not observe it).

The map is split into 149 sectors which are spread across 9 elevation
ranges from horizon (0°) to zenith (+90°) and can help to identify areas
where the sky is obstructed.

Here's an example of a station with good visibility. The only bad
visibility is in low elevations of the Southeast for a patch of the sky
where a building obstructs the sky. Note that the white areas in the
north region are expected for stations on the northern hemisphere.

[]

Station has good visibility all over except for a patch in the SE, at
lower elevation where a building is known to be blocking the sky.

On the other hand, here is an example of a station placed on a window
sill. Half the sky is completely blocked by the building where the
antenna is located while the other half has somewhat acceptable
reception (with low elevation satellite tracking being bad across the
whole horizon):

[]

Station placed on a window sill showing bad sky visibility.

With the help of the sky map, you can identify obstructions at your
antenna location. If possible, you can then improve the satellite signal
reception by changing the environment.

PreviousExplorer[]NextGetting data credits[]

Last updated 1 year ago
