[]Copy

[]

1.  4. Get GNSS Corrections

Getting data credits

You would like to receive onocoy's data via NTRIP? Great! Here is how it
works.

[]

Create an account

To use our services, you must have an onocoy account. If you don't
already have one, head over to the onocoy explorer[], click on Register
now and create a user account. You will be notified by email when your
account is activated.

[]

Top up your Data Credits

Data Credits (DC) are the way of payment at onocoy. In order to access
the services, you must first purchase Data Credits through your account.

To receive GNSS correction data from onocoy, you first have to Top Up
your Data Credits for the first time. Go to NTRIP Clients and click on
Buy Data Credits, the following pop-up window will open.

[Screenshot for buying data credits]

Buy data credits by choosing the desired amount.

Select the amount you would like to top up your account with. Next,
insert your credit card and billing information. If you have a coupon
code, you can apply it in this step.

[]

After checkout, you will see in the top right corner your updated Data
Credit amount.

If you would like to see your payment and invoice history, click on your
account email in the top right of the header, select Settings and choose
the Billing tab. Open the Billing Dashboard to receive access to your
invoices and payment methods.

We previously also offered to swap DC for BONO tokens, which were the
Beta ONO tokens. Unfortunately, we are unable to provide this method at
the moment due to regulatory constraints. We will announce immediately
when this method becomes available again.

[]

How much Data Credits do I need? — Our data plans

Which amount to top up? Here is how our price plan works.

Fees are deducted in credits from your account and consist of:

- 

  Base subscription fee. The recurring fee is deducted in advance every
  30 days, plus

- 

  Pay-per-use fee. Deducted in real-time and for the time you actually
  will use the Services ("Pay-per-use").

[]

onocoy price plan. 1 DC is equivalent to 1 USD.

The base subscription fee for the 30 days data plan is 20 Data Credits.
In addition, every hour of GNSS correction data is 0.15 Data Credits.
This is the pay-per-use fee. Hence, 25 Data Credits will be enough for
one month of subscription plus more than 30 hours of GNSS correction
data in that month. Please note that a refund of Data Credits is not
possible.

Upon purchase, you will be able to receive onocoy RTK data as long as
there are enough data credits on your account. Every 30 days, the base
fee will be automatically deducted from your account. Therefore, you
need to make sure there is enough credit on your account. For more
details regarding data usage and termination please refer to our Terms
of Service[].

PreviousSky Map[]NextSetting of the credentials[]

Last updated 5 months ago
